readme.md, before:

## OAuth2 and OpenID Connect

### Basics

#### Flows/grants

- Public client cannot be trusted with client credentials. E.g. browser-side app.
- Private client can be trusted with client credentials. E.g. server-side app.
- Flow depends on the type of client, dependending how the application can achieve authentication.
- Authorization code
- Implicit
- Hybrid
-

#### Tokens

- Identity token is obtained through authentication via the authorization endpoint at IDP.
- Access token is obtained for authorization via the authorization endpoint at IDP.
- JWT structure

### Setting up Identity Server 4

- dotnet CLI templates exist, that can be installed using `dotnet new -u IdentityServer4.Templates`. You can check if these are installed by running `dotnet new`.
- Install the one we want with `dotnet new is4empty`. This one is without any UI, we'll install that later.
- Make sure the IDP project's name is neutral, because IDP will be used by multiple clients.
- Install UI with `dotnet new is4ui`.
- The template installs an Identity Server with a basic, in-memory setup.
  - Define Identity resources, Api resources and Client resources in `Config.cs`, but only as a first-hand solution to get started with development.
  - Define `TestUsers`, but only once you've added the UI.
  - Developer signing keys.
  - `UseIdentityServer()` to set up middleware.
- Https is already enabled by the `.UseIdentityServer()` middleware.
- We can go to `.well-known/openid-configuration` to get basic data on endpoints.
- Add UI by installing template: `dotnet new is4ui`:
  - To get the UI working you have to uncomment **all** the commented out lines in `Startup.ConfigureServices` and `Startup.Configure`.
- Test users are added in `TestUsers.cs`:
  - Remove these and add your own.
  - Add your own claims if you want. Make sure you add a `SubjectId` to each test user.
  - Once you are done, add the test users to the identity server by calling `.AddTestUsers(TestUsers.Users)` in `Startup.ConfigureServices()`.
- Identity resources in `Config.cs`:
  - Identity resources are mapped to scopes that give access to identity-related information.
  - `IdentityResources.OpenId()` is mandatory because we are using OIDC. This scope gives us access to user identifier (`subject_id` claim).
  - `IdentityResources.Profile()` gives access to profile-related claims, e.g. `given_name`, `family_name`.
- API resources in `Config.cs`:
  - API resources are mapped to scopes that give access to APIs.
- After you have configured any new identity scopes and claims, you can go to `.well-known/openid-configuration` and you should see both there, under `scopes-supported` and `claims-supported`.
- Client resources:
  - Each client should have defined:
    - Client Name: name to show on login screen.
    - Client Id: unique identifier defining the client.
    - Allowed grants: which flows are supported by this client.
    - Redirect URI: default value, as per standard, is `<domain>/signin-oidc`. You must provide the redirect URI, but a non-default value can be used as well.
    - Allowed scopes: which scopes are allowed by this client.
    - Client secrets

### Setting up client

- The main point here is to set up middleware and services so authentication and authorization is provided. The steps are outlined below, but for details, check [Client project's Startup.cs](src\ImageGallery.Client\Startup.cs). For more info on authentication schemes, consult [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52492666/what-is-the-point-of-configuring-defaultscheme-and-defaultchallengescheme-on-asp/52493428#52493428).
- Configure authentication services by calling `.AddAuthentication()` and providing default and challenge authentication schemas. You will also need to define how to sign in (persist) user using Open Id Authentication `.AddOpenIdConnect()`.
- Add an authorization cookie.

### Open points

- root folder `tempkey.rsa` - what is that?

Commit message:

dev: Setting up OIDC handler.

readme.md, after:

## OAuth2 and OpenID Connect

### Basics

#### Flows/grants

- Public client cannot be trusted with client credentials. E.g. browser-side app.
- Private client can be trusted with client credentials. E.g. server-side app.
- Flow depends on the type of client, dependending how the application can achieve authentication.
- Authorization code
- Implicit
- Hybrid
-

#### Tokens

- Identity token is obtained through authentication via the authorization endpoint at IDP.
- Access token is obtained for authorization via the authorization endpoint at IDP.
- JWT structure

### Setting up Identity Server 4

- dotnet CLI templates exist, that can be installed using `dotnet new -u IdentityServer4.Templates`. You can check if these are installed by running `dotnet new`.
- Install the one we want with `dotnet new is4empty`. This one is without any UI, we'll install that later.
- Make sure the IDP project's name is neutral, because IDP will be used by multiple clients.
- Install UI with `dotnet new is4ui`.
- The template installs an Identity Server with a basic, in-memory setup.
  - Define Identity resources, Api resources and Client resources in `Config.cs`, but only as a first-hand solution to get started with development.
  - Define `TestUsers`, but only once you've added the UI.
  - Developer signing keys.
  - `UseIdentityServer()` to set up middleware.
- Https is already enabled by the `.UseIdentityServer()` middleware.
- We can go to `.well-known/openid-configuration` to get basic data on endpoints.
- Add UI by installing template: `dotnet new is4ui`:
  - To get the UI working you have to uncomment **all** the commented out lines in `Startup.ConfigureServices` and `Startup.Configure`.
- Test users are added in `TestUsers.cs`:
  - Remove these and add your own.
  - Add your own claims if you want. Make sure you add a `SubjectId` to each test user.
  - Once you are done, add the test users to the identity server by calling `.AddTestUsers(TestUsers.Users)` in `Startup.ConfigureServices()`.
- Identity resources in `Config.cs`:
  - Identity resources are mapped to scopes that give access to identity-related information.
  - `IdentityResources.OpenId()` is mandatory because we are using OIDC. This scope gives us access to user identifier (`subject_id` claim).
  - `IdentityResources.Profile()` gives access to profile-related claims, e.g. `given_name`, `family_name`.
- API resources in `Config.cs`:
  - API resources are mapped to scopes that give access to APIs.
- After you have configured any new identity scopes and claims, you can go to `.well-known/openid-configuration` and you should see both there, under `scopes-supported` and `claims-supported`.
- Client resources:
  - Each client should have defined:
    - Client Name: name to show on login screen.
    - Client Id: unique identifier defining the client.
    - Allowed grants: which flows are supported by this client.
    - Redirect URI: default value, as per standard, is `<domain>/signin-oidc`. You must provide the redirect URI, but a non-default value can be used as well.
    - Allowed scopes: which scopes are allowed by this client.
    - Client secrets

### Setting up client

- The main point here is to set up middleware and services so authentication and authorization is provided. The steps are outlined below, but for details, check [Client project's Startup.cs](src\ImageGallery.Client\Startup.cs). For more info on authentication schemes, consult [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52492666/what-is-the-point-of-configuring-defaultscheme-and-defaultchallengescheme-on-asp/52493428#52493428).
- Configure authentication services by calling `.AddAuthentication()` and providing default and challenge authentication schemas.
- Register and configure Open Id handler with `.AddOpenIdConnect()` to assist in several details. OIDC handler will:
  - Generate authorization token request.
  - Generate token request.
  - Handle identity token validaiton
- Add an encrypted authentication cookie with `.AddCookie()`.
- Use the above authentication and authorization services as part of authentication and authorization middleware by calling `app.UseAuthentication()` and `app.UseAuthorization()`.

### Open points

- root folder `tempkey.rsa` - what is that?
